# Project Proposal: Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Energy Transition

### Visit our website [HERE](https://lwyohann.github.io/LookingFor1_Data_Story/) !

## Abstract
The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted various sectors globally, including the energy sector. This project aims to investigate the impact of the pandemic on our green energy transition. By analyzing relevant datasets, we seek to understand how the pandemic has influenced the energy consumption in specific 6 Europe countries. Additionally, we aim to explore changes in people's awareness of green energy transition and the shift in energy consumption patterns.

To address these research questions, we will utilize available datasets such as 'interventions.csv', which provides information about interventions implemented during the pandemic, and renewed 'applemobilitytrends.csv.gz' and 'Global_Mobility_Report.csv.gz', which contain mobility data that can be correlated with energy consumption. We will also analyze 'Finland_2019.csv' and similar files for other countries to examine changes in energy usage before and after the pandemic.

Our methodology might involve data analysis and visualization techniques. We will apply statistical analysis, time series analysis, and regression modeling to identify relationships between variables and uncover insights. The project timeline spans five weeks, encompassing data collection, preprocessing, exploratory analysis, statistical analysis, and visualization.

By conducting this research, we aim to contribute to the understanding of the COVID-19 pandemic's impact on energy system transition. The findings can inform renewable energy strategies and facilitate a more sustainable and resilient energy future.

## Research Questions
1. How did the COVID-19 pandemic changed our energy consumption?
2. Has our energy consumption structure changed and become renewable?
3. What is the relationship between mobility and energy consumption?
4. Does the intensity of lockdowns have an impact on mobility and energy consumption?
5. From the data of page views, whether people's awareness of green energy transition has improved?
6. How does all of this vary in countries selected?
## Proposed Additional Datasets
In addition to the primary datasets mentioned above, we will explore the following additional dataset to enrich our analysis:
- [Actual Electricity Generation per Production Type in Europe Countries (2019~2022)](https://transparency.entsoe.eu/dashboard/show) : This dataset contains changes in the electricity generated by different energy sources(eg. biomass, nuclear, marine.) in europe countries. The data is recorded hourly or 15-minute. Since electricity generation and consumption theoretically need to be balanced in real time, we can use generation data to approximate consumption data.
- [The Oxford COVID-19 Government Response Tracker (OxCGRT) database](https://github.com/OxCGRT/covid-policy-dataset/tree/main/data) : This dataset contains the strictness of lockdown policies for nearly all countries. We focus on eight containment indicators (C1~C8) in the OxCGRT database [[1]](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570677X22000120?via%3Dihub).
- [Wikipedia:Pageview statistics](https://pageviews.wmcloud.org/?project=en.wikipedia.org&platform=all-access&agent=user&redirects=0&range=latest-20&pages=Cat|Dog): This tool is used by us to collect pageviews of terms.
- [Apple Mobility Trends (renewed)](https://github.com/ActiveConclusion/COVID19_mobility) & [Google Mobility Report (renewed)](https://github.com/ActiveConclusion/COVID19_mobility): This two datasets are extended to 2022.


## Methods
Our analysis object: Finland, France, Germany, Netherlands, Serbia and Spain from the beginning of 2019 to the end of 2021.

### Dataset collection and preprocess
We have collected the datasets above and preprocessed most of the above datasets (clean the data, handle missing values, and perform necessary transformations).

### Analysis
- Q1 & Q2: 
  * Datasets: 'interventions.csv', 'Finland_2019.csv','Finland_2020.csv', ... , 'Spain_2021.csv'
  * Visualize the evolution of energy consumption over time for each country using line plots to get a better understanding of the electricity consumption patterns and see if there was obvious patterns during the Covid.
  * Time series analysis: Analyze the difference in the total energy consumption and the proportion of renewable energy before and after the pandemic, we may need to standardize the energy usage data based on the corresponding month in 2019 to avoid the influence of the temporal patterns and seasonality of energy usage. We can also introduce machine learning and predict the energy usage in 2021 or 2022 and analyze the differnce between it and real data: use the XGBoost library to create an XGBoostRegressor model, fit the model to the training data, evaluate its performance on both the training and test sets using the root mean squared error (RMSE) metric.
  * Explore the electricity generation structure in these countries before, during and after the pandemic.
- Q3 & Q4:
  * Datasets: 'applemobilitytrends.csv.gz', 'Global_Mobility_Report.csv.gz', 'lockdown_strictness.csv'
  * Use a t-test to test the null hypothesis that the total energy consumption before and after mobility restrictions have the same average value.
  * Introduce lockdown strictness datasets, evaluate the presence of a Spearman correlation on mobility/strictness and total/renewable energy consumption in 6 countries.
- Q5:
  * Datasets: 'Aggregated_timeseries.json.gz', 'Topics_linked.csv.xz', 'Energy storage.json', ... , 'Climate change.json'
  * Since the given dataset is aggregated by topics and the most relevant topic in that is 'STEM_earth and environment', we added the wikipedia pageviews of terms ('Energy storage', 'Electric vehicle', 'Electricity generation', 'Renewable energy', 'Sustainable energy', 'Wind turbine', 'Photovoltaics','Climate change') during 2019 to 2021.
  * Perform a z-score standardization of the pageviews data and then conduct T-tests to check if people's awareness on green energy transition had a statistically significant change from 2019.
  
- Q6: Will be done during analysis of Q1~Q5.

## Proposed Timeline
The project will be executed over a five-week timeline:

- 18/11/2023~24/11/2023: Complete the remaining part of data collection and preprocessing.
- 24/11/2023~01/12/2023: For Q1 & Q2, complete the data visualize and learn from the energy usage patterns. For Q3 & Q4, due to the huge amount of data, further processing data and determine the method. For Q5, finish the standardization.
- 01/12/2023~08/12/2023: For Q1 & Q2, finish time series analysis. For Q3 & Q4 & Q5, finish the t-test.
- 08/12/2023~15/12/2023: For Q1 & Q2, try to introduce machine learning. For Q3 & Q4 & Q5, finish the remaining work.
- 15/12/2023~22/12/2023: Data story.

## Organization within the Team
| Name | Tasks | Contributions |
|  :----:  | :----:  | :----:  |
| Shiyi Huang  | Q1 & Q2 | Electricity Generation data analysis, Interactive plot, Data story |
| Shaotian Wu  | Q1 & Q2 | Time series analysis, Data story |
| Wenyu Liu | Q3 & Q4 | Energy structure analysis and ANOVA, Mobility data analysis, Spearman correlation analysis, Interactive plot, Machine learning by XGBoost, Data story , Website|
| Weiqi Chen | Q3 & Q4 | Preliminary data analysis, Data story |
| Selima Khabthani  | Q5 | Pageviews analysis, OxCGRT data process, Interactive plot, Data story |
